docs: add Tools & SDKs hub (support matrix, listing criteria, registry-join guide) (#21859)
ethereum-optimism/optimism: docs/public-docs/chain-operators/guides/join-superchain-registry.mdx

---
title: Join the Superchain Registry
description: How to add your OP Stack chain to the Superchain Registry — prerequisites, config generation, and the pull-request process.
diataxis: how-to
---

{/*
  Maintainers: this guide wraps the registry repo's docs/ops.md, which remains
  the canonical source for step details. Last verified against
  ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry docs/ops.md at commit 738212e.
*/}

The [Superchain Registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry)

> is the source-of-truth index of who is in the Superchain Ecosystem and how each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is the source-of-truth index of who is in the OP Stack Ecosystem and how each
```

chain is configured. This guide walks you through adding your chain. The
registry repo's
[operations documentation](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry/blob/main/docs/ops.md)
is the canonical reference for every step below — each step links the matching
section, and if this page and that document ever disagree, the registry repo
wins.

Joining gets you more than a listing: once your chain is in the registry, its
config is embedded in downstream releases of `op-node` and `op-geth`, so nodes
can join your network with the `--network` / `--op-network` flags and can
inherit Superchain-wide hardfork activations automatically. See the
[superchain-registry explainer](/op-stack/protocol/superchain-registry) for how
that works.

## Before You Start

> 

Reviewer: I think new chains need an agreement with the Optimism Foundation, but I need to double check this criteria. Until I have clarity on that, add an initial bullet point that says, "Chat with the Optimism Foundation."
